Hey there! So this is the fourth part of
this section, and in it we will, pretty much,
iterate over the application details.
So such as this one, for example.
And then we will iterate over pages or
process, really, next pages until
there are no more pages. So, in this case,
we will scrape four pages. So let's begin.
Okay. Let's go to the shell, and then
let's see if we are in the right page.
So response.url, and it seems like
we are. So let's first, as I was saying,
isolate this type of file number, really, or the
URLs to the specific pages or application pages.
So since this is fairly a simple site
there shouldn't be too much worry.
So we go to Inspect, and then let's see.
So we can extract it by using or selecting every
table data, and then going into each and every "a" tag,
and going into each and every
href tag. So let's try to do that.
Let's go back to the Terminal and type in
response.xpath. Select every TD or table data.
Let's go down to the "a" tag. So let's
double verify this. So every table data,
go to the "a" tag, and then get to
the href, and call in extract. Hit Enter.
And here we got, let's see, so this is
the first one. And let's go into Inspect,
go back to the Terminal, and
let's see. Yeah, this is the last one.
So this is the pages, as you can see, or urls.
As you can see, this is fairly straightforward.
Generally speaking, when
it comes to scraping table data,
just make sure, one note, so if you would
like to scrape, maybe, Decision Due Date
or Decision Date or Decision Code, etc., my
idea or my general approach to scraping tables
is that you first need to
isolate the rows. Okay?
And then you need to isolate the table data.
So this is the first table data. This is the second one,
as you can see. This is then the third
one, see? And this is the fourth one.
As you can see, it's empty. This is the fourth
one, and this is the fifth one, sixth one, etc.
So just make sure to,
again, isolate the table rows,
and then iterate over each and every table row
because that way you can get more sense out of the data.
Otherwise, what I did so, and also on
my end, and also from some students,
is that once they don't have
data in the cells, such as this here,
then if they try to parse the table as it is, like as
a whole, then they've got a lot of troubles, really,
because then they get mix-and-match,
really, data points
across all of these cells. So, okay.
So let's go back to our project.
Go to the Terminal, and we can, pretty much,
copy and paste this into our text editor.
So we can call this application_urls is equal
to this, and then we can just iterate over the URLs.
So for url in application_urls,
so copy and paste this.
Let's see if we need to use response.urljoin.
Okay, we have to because it's not going to have
the absolute URL. So url = response.urljoin,
and then url. Finally, then we are going
to yield Request. So parse or, sorry,
yield Request, and then the URL. And
we will define callback as self.parse.
Let's say items, for example. And let's
save it as it is. And for testing purposes,
what I did previously, and when
I want to scrape just something for a test,
is to go to the, for example, parse function
or the first one, and only get the first instance.
So we are only going to want to,
let's see, scrape the first URL,
which is probably going to be this county.
So let's see. So it's going to be this URL.
So we use here list slicing, and to
do that we go from 0 to 1, save it,
and then go back to the Terminal and run
our script. So, let's see if this will work.
No, this will not work. The reason why
is because the first one will be filtered out.
So let's go to the second one.
So we can go from 0 to 2, for example.
The first, of course, will be filtered
out. And the second one will be,
hopefully, the one that we need.
Okay. So it is. So this one is filtered out,
and the first one goes to the POST, and
let's see. It should be... if we go back to here...
we haven't defined this function, so
if we define it, it should be good to go.
And for now, let's pass it as it is,
go back to the Terminal,
and run it once again. Okay,
something is weird, so let's see what's up.
So we are going to go to the
application_urls. And it seems like... yeah.
I know probably what is the issue. So let's try to do it
with the five first counties or something like that.
The issue here is that if we go
to the Received Applications,
and then 42 Days, click Search,
it will probably be empty. Right, yeah.
So let's go back to Sublime Text
and select first until 10 or so.
So we can more quickly go
over this sample. And let's see.
So right now, it goes to GET. And then,
okay, so it seems like it's working.
So if we copy and paste this to our
browser... and, yeah, it seems like we need
to do it probably once again.
Okay. So this site is sort of weird.
So you have to reload the page two times to get to the
URL. Okay, so it seems like it's working, which is great.
So let's go back to the text editor
and remove our list slicing.
So this is, again, what I use in the,
sort of, when producing or, really,
developing quick tests to see if the new function
or new URL or everything else will work fine.
So, in this case, everything is
working fine, which is great.
The last thing that we need to do in this
part of the video is... let's go to Search...
is go and, really, iterate or crawl the next
pages. So it's going to be fairly straightforward.
We go to Inspect, and then,
let's see, we can... so we can either
go to the class with this value, and then
go to the /a and then scrape the href tag,
or we can, pretty much, get this value
and have the next as a value to it.
So I believe we can, pretty much,
copy... okay, perfect.
We can copy and paste this as
it is. So let's go back to the shell
and verify that it will work, first and
foremost. So response.xpath,
and then we can type this, and we
can add to select every instance.
So the syntax is, really, the same as… if we scraped or tried to
write XPath selector to the [class] itself.
So let's hit Enter. Perfect. It works.
So we need to go to the href
and extract the first instance.
Okay, close parentheses.
Okay, it works great, but, of course, we need to have
the absolute URL. So we will use the response.urljoin.
Okay? So this, also, is one thing
important to note because I also made
this mistake probably 10 times -- that
I forgot to add the response.urljoin,
or, really, that URL was not as specified or,
really, not a successful one. So if we copy this,
paste this into your text editor as
next_page_url is equal to this. And
then, let's say, absolute_next_page_url
is going to be equal to response.urljoin.
And then we can copy and paste this.
Then, finally, we will yield Request. Now
we'll yield Request to the same callback,
which is going to be parse_pages, because
we want to, of course, iterate over the first page.
So in the Scrapy logic, it will go
to this page, on the first page,
and then it will yield the very next page.
Then, sort of, Scrapy will go again to the parse_pages,
which is the reason why we are going to
define the callback function to the parse_pages,
and it will then scrape the second pages,
then it will... the
absolute_next_page_url will be the third page,
because we are on the second page, and
then it will do the same thing for the fourth, fifth,
or however many there are pages. So
yield Request, then we can copy and paste
this URL, comma, callback is
equal to the self.parse_pages.
Okay, so we can copy this and paste it.
Okay, so save it, and go back to the Terminal,
and let's verify that everything is working
great. Okay, so we should be looking
at the second pages, as you can
see here. We got to the second page,
and this is the third page of one of
the results. So everything is working fine.
So we can close this by double pressing ctrl + C
two times. And since everything is working fine,
we can then proceed to the
very next video, where I'll see you.
Talk soon!